---
title: "Notice Regarding Transaction Dispute Time Frame under GSA SmartPay® Master Contract"
pageTitle: "Notice Regarding Transaction Dispute Time Frame under GSA SmartPay® Master Contract"
intro: "GSA SmartPay Smart Bulletin No. 005"
description: "Notice Regarding Transaction Dispute Time Frame under GSA SmartPay® Master Contract"
number: "No. 005"
order: 005
businessline: "Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated"
published: "Oct 31, 2008"
lastupdated: "Mar 22, 2024"
---

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| October 31, 2008 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #05 |
| July 26, 2023 | Revised to update to GSA SmartPay 3 Master Contract language and remove obsolete guidance. |
| March 22, 2024 | Revised for administrative updates |

## Effective Date

From Issuance until superseded


## Business Line(s) Affected

Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated


## Introduction

The GSA SmartPay master contract provides 90 calendar days following the transaction date to file a dispute. It is highly recommended not to delay filing a dispute when required. 


## Summary

According to GSA SmartPay 3 master contract Section C.3.3.14.1, “the invoice will be electronically reconciled by the agency/organization or designee, unless otherwise specified at the task order level. The account holder is responsible for notifying the Contractor of any items in dispute and shall have 90 calendar days from the transaction date to initiate a dispute, unless otherwise specified by the agency/organization. This notification of transaction dispute may occur via the electronic access system described in C.7.1 Electronic Access System, by telephone, or other electronic means (e.g., email). If a disputed item is resolved before the payment due date, the resolution shall appear on the agency’s/organization’s invoice for the next billing cycle.”


## Action

Cardholders should regularly access their accounts through their servicing contractor bank’s electronic access system, verifying the charges on the account on a regular basis. As soon as a dispute is deemed necessary, cardholders should not delay in notifying the contractor bank. Submitting a dispute as early as possible will ensure the contractor bank has ample time to investigate the disputed transaction. Allowing the maximum time for investigation will give the cardholder the best chance for thorough dispute investigation and afford the bank contractor the best opportunity to charge back the merchant if necessary. 
