---
title: "Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Process: Continuous Learning Points (CLPs) Now Offered"
pageTitle:  "Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul Process: Continuous Learning Points (CLPs) Now Offered"
intro: "GSA SmartPay® Smart Bulletin No. 042"
number: "No. 042"
order: 042
businessline: "Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated"
published: "June 13, 2025"
lastupdated: "N/A"
---

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| June 13, 2025 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #42 |

## Effective Date
This Smart Bulletin becomes effective upon issuance and shall remain in force until modified or rescinded.

## Business Line(s) Affected
Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated

## Introduction
This document outlines the distribution of Continuous Learning Points (CLPs) specifically related to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul process.

## Summary
The Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) and the FAR Council are overhauling the FAR to streamline acquisition, cut red tape, and boost competition by removing non-statutory rules, promoting plain language, and adding buying guides. 

The Federal Acquisition Institute (FAI) has officially announced on June 4, 2025, a new initiative to support federal acquisition professionals through the comprehensive Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) overhaul process. As individual parts of the FAR are revised and agency deviations are published, FAI will compile and release summarized "practitioner albums." These albums are designed to serve as comprehensive guides, providing professionals with critical insights and information on the changes.

Upon reviewing these practitioner albums, which are intended to offer a summary into the specific FAR updates, individuals will be eligible to receive Continuing Learning Points (CLPs). These CLPs will be officially recorded and reflected on the  professionals’ training transcript. This process aims to ensure that all personnel remain up-to-date with the latest regulations and are formally credited for their professional development efforts in navigating these changes.

## Action
Below is the process to review the practitioner albums and receive the CLPs. 
1. Go to the RFO Practitioner Album in the [Revolutionary FAR Overhaul playlist](https://id.dau.edu/). You will be required to log into your DAU/FAI CSOD account.
2. Choose the FAR part or agency deviation from the playlist. 
3. Request the training.
4. Launch and review the training.
5. Launch test and complete.
6. CLPs will automatically be added to your transcript.
   
You can also submit feedback on the FAR changes via [Acquistion.gov](https://www.acquisition.gov/) - [FAR Overhaul](https://www.dau.edu/news/revolutionary-far-overhaul-part-10-market-research)
