---
title: "Smart Bulletin No. 001"
intro: "Introduction to GSA SmartPay® Smart Bulletins"
number: "No. 001"
order: 001
businessline: "Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated"
published: "Jan 18, 2007"
lastupdated: "Mar 22, 2024"
---

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| January 18, 2007 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #01 |
| March 22, 2024 | Revised for administrative updates |

## Effective Date

From Issuance until superseded 


## Business Line(s) Affected

A statement of which GSA SmartPay business line(s) (Purchase, Travel, Fleet, Integrated) will be affected by the new or updated policy, regulation, or law.

## Summary

The GSA SmartPay Program Office has initiated the GSA SmartPay Smart Bulletins to keep customer agencies and stakeholders informed of new or updated policies, regulations, charge card management practices, task order administration information, master contract changes, and laws relevant to government charge cards. These bulletins are intended to be a source of other information, providing operational guidance to GSA SmartPay customers. These are not intended to be policy issuances. 

GSA SmartPay Smart Bulletins will be structured as follows:

- **Introduction** – An explanation of the purpose of the GSA SmartPay Smart Bulletin, which will include relevant information such as the issuer of the new or updated policy, regulation, or law and the reason for the change. 
- **Business Line(s) Affected** – A statement of which GSA SmartPay business line(s) (Purchase, Travel, Fleet, Integrated) will be affected by the new or updated policy, regulation, or law. 
- **Summary** – A brief summary of the new or updated policy, regulation, or law. 
- **Effect of Policy Change** – Effect of the new or updated policy, regulation, or law ___on GSA SmartPay customers.
- **Action** – Action to take as a result of, or to be in compliance with, the new or updated policy, regulation, or law. 
- **Timeframe** – Period of time the new or updated policy, regulation, information, or law is effective/relevant. 
