---
title: "Smart Bulletin No. 014"
intro: "Non-DoD Organization Option to Use Travel Card for Local Travel"
number: "No. 014"
order: 014
businessline: "Travel, Integrated"
published: "Sep 19, 2019"
lastupdated: "Mar 22, 2024"
---

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| September 19, 2019 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #14 |
| July 26, 2023 | Revised for administrative updates and incorporated SmartPay 3 language. |
| March 22, 2024 | Revised for administrative updates |

## Effective Date

This Smart Bulletin becomes effective upon issuance and shall remain in force until modified or rescinded.


## Business Line(s) Affected

Travel, Integrated (Travel) 


## Summary

Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) Amendment 2010-02 which became effective on June 4, 2010, deleted references to local travel and clarifies that the FTR applies only when an employee is on temporary duty (TDY) travel. (See Federal Register/Vol. 75, No. 86, pg. 24434). 

In acknowledgement of this amendment, C.2.1.3 Travel Business Line Scope of Work of the GSA SmartPay3 Master Contract states “Travel solutions may be utilized for local travel expenses in accordance with agency/organization policies and procedures and requirements described in P.L. 112-194 The Government Charge Card Abuse Prevention Act of 2011, P.L. 105-264, and the OMB Circular A-123, Appendix B." This allows an option for non-Department of Defense (DoD) customer organizations to permit use of the travel charge card for local travel in accordance with agency/organization policies and procedures. 

OMB Circular No A-123 Appendix B revised August 27, 2019 states in chapter 2.5 that controls are required to ensure the travel business line is used for local travel as authorized by agency policy. Chapter 4.5 includes local travel as a required training element in cardholder training where applicable.


## Action

Any non-DoD agency or organization that wishes to pursue the use of travel cards for local travel should develop agency/organization specific policies and procedures to be utilized for use of the travel charge card in support of local travel. 
Agencies/organizations that choose to do so should also include local travel in their cardholder training. 
