---
title: "Smart Bulletin No. 017"
intro: "Brands (Visa/Mastercard) to Permit Merchant Surcharges"
number: "No. 017"
order: 017
businessline: "Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated"
published: "Jan 27, 2013"
lastupdated: "Mar 22, 2024"
---

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| January 27, 2013 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #17 |
| August 16, 2023 | Revised to update for administrative changes. |
| March 22, 2024 | Revised for administrative updates |

## Effective Date

This Smart Bulletin becomes effective upon issuance and shall remain in force until
modified or rescinded.


## Business Line(s) Affected

Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated


## Introduction

This bulletin addresses surcharges merchants may choose to impose for accepting credit cards and GSA SmartPay charge cards.

## Summary

Surcharges are fees that a retailer chooses to add to the cost of a purchase when a customer uses a charge card or credit card product. As a result of the settlement between a class of retailers and brands on January 27, 2013, merchants in the United States and U.S. Territories will be permitted to impose a surcharge on cardholders when a charge card or credit card is used as a form of payment. 

Please note that not all merchants will choose to impose a surcharge, and each state may have its own policy regarding surcharge allowability.

In accordance with brand rules, the following limitations apply to merchant-imposed surcharges: 
- The surcharge amount is limited to the specific and negotiated acceptance rate of a merchant and the networks; meaning that merchants are not allowed to profit from choosing to assess surcharges. For example, if a merchant’s negotiated acceptance rate with VISA and MasterCard is 3%, the merchant is allowed to impose a surcharge of no more than 3% of the total transaction value. Please note that the total surcharge rate a merchant can impose cannot exceed 4% in any State. 
- Merchants are prohibited from imposing different surcharge amounts for different networks. For example, a merchant cannot impose a 3% surcharge for a VISA or MasterCard network product and a 2% surcharge for a non-VISA or MasterCard network product. In this example, the merchant would only be able to add a surcharge of up to 2% for all charge cards and credit cards accepted. 
- Merchants must post clear notice and signage of imposed surcharges, which includes brick and mortar locations and ecommerce portals. 
- All surcharges must be documented as a separate transaction line item in receipts. 
For more information, please refer to VISA and MasterCard policy at: 

https://usa.visa.com/content/dam/VCOM/global/support-legal/documents/merchant-surcharging-qa-for-web.pdf

https://www.mastercard.us/en-us/business/overview/support/merchant-surcharge-rules.html

https://www.mastercard.us/content/dam/public/mastercardcom/na/us/en/documents/Merchant_Surcharge_FAQ.pdf


## Action

A/OPCs should ensure cardholders and other charge card management personnel are aware of the possibility of surcharges when making purchases using GSA SmartPay charge cards. If a merchant is imposing a surcharge, the cardholder may choose to consider another merchant that offers the same or similar item(s) to avoid paying the surcharge. 
