---
title: "Visa’s Government and Higher Education Payment Program – Updates/Changes"
intro: "GSA SmartPay® Smart Bulletin No. 018"
number: "No. 018"
order: 018
businessline: "Purchase and Integrated"
published: "Feb 19, 2013"
lastupdated: "Mar 22, 2024"
---

<div 
    class="usa-alert margin-y-2 usa-alert--warning"
    data-test="alert-container"
    >
    <div class="usa-alert__body">
    <p 
        class="usa-alert__text" 
    >
        This Smart Bulletin was Archived on August 1, 2023
    </p>
    </div>
</div>

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| February 19, 2013 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #18 |
| August 1, 2023 | Archived |
| March 22, 2024 | Revised for administrative updates |

## Effective Date

From Issuance through August 1, 2023


## Business Line(s) Affected

Purchase, and Integrated


## Introduction

The GSA SmartPay government-wide commercial charge card services contracts offer two primary charge card brands through its contractor banks: VISA® and MasterCard®. This bulletin addresses the changes to Visa’s Government and Higher Education Payment Program (formerly called the “Tax Payment Program”) to allow merchants within certain Merchant Category Codes (MCCs) encompassing government and institutions of higher education the option of charging a service fee when payment is made using consumer credit or debit cards or when using commercial card products. Note that these fees have been permitted by MasterCard for some time; VISA is now changing its policies in a similar manner. 

## Summary

Note that not all merchants under the above MCCs will impose service fees. In addition, some states have laws that limit or do not allow service fees. As of February 19, 2013, the following states limit or do not allow service fees: California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Kansas, Maine, Massachusetts, New York, Oklahoma and Texas. Cardholders who are charged a service fee in any of the above-mentioned states should first check the State Attorney General's website to review the statute(s) governing service fees. If it’s determined a service fee has been improperly assessed, the cardholder should dispute the charge with the contractor bank. 


## Action

Cardholders and charge card management personnel should be aware of the possibility of merchants assessing service fees on open market micro-purchases from government and higher education institutions, as identified above. Level 1 Agency/Organization Program Coordinators are asked to ensure card management, cardholders, approving officials, and cardholders throughout their organization are advised of the potential for service fees to be assessed on charge card transactions. When faced with a merchant intending to assess a service fee for a transaction, it is recommended that cardholders be advised to consider other sources of similar supplies/services, if available, which do not assess a fee. The level of such market research action taken should be commensurate with mission needs, the value and risks associated with the purchase, etc. 

Furthermore, where the card is used as a payment tool under a government contract, cardholders first should consult with the cognizant contracting officer before paying any such service fees to ensure they are allowable under the contract. 


