---
title: "GSA SmartPay-Record Retention Requirements"
intro: "GSA SmartPay® Smart Bulletin No. 025"
number: "No. 025"
order: 025
businessline: "Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated"
published: "Sep 10, 2015"
lastupdated: "Mar 22, 2024"
---

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| September 10, 2015 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #25 |
| October 25, 2023 | Revised for administrative format change(s) <br> Revised to incorporate updated guidance |
| March 22, 2024 | Revised for administrative updates |

## Effective Date

From Issuance until superseded.

## Business Line(s) Affected

Purchase, Travel, Fleet, and Integrated


## Introduction

The purpose of this GSA SmartPay Smart Bulletin is to inform customer agencies of the record keeping requirements under the GSA SmartPay program.

## Summary

The purpose of this Smart Bulletin is to generally describe records retention requirements and to allow reductions in the retention period for specific classes of records under prescribed circumstances. In addition, this Smart Bulletin will highlight the changes that affect the GSA SmartPay government-wide charge card program and provide direct links to the resources available from The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Any future updates that may affect record retention for the GSA SmartPay program will be added to this Smart Bulletin as they become available. In addition to the record retention requirements of FAR Part 4.703 Contractor Records Retention, the Contractor shall serve as the document repository agent for all GSA SmartPay transactions. The Contractor shall maintain electronic records of all transactions for a period of six (6) years after final contract payment.

## Resources 

[FAR Part 4.703 Contractor Records Retention](https://www.acquisition.gov/far/subpart-4.7)

[NARA GRS 4.1 Records Management Records](https://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/grs.html)

[GSA SmartPay Master Contract (C.7.2.4 Record Retention and Retrieval)[PDF, 231 pages]](/files/GSA_SP3_Master_Contract.pdf)


## Action

A/OPCs and cardholders should familiarize themselves with the updates and new GRS 1.1 provided in Transmittal 23. Some of these changes affect the record retention of documents associated with the use of the GSA SmartPay program. For questions related to the GRS, please contact the NARA Office of the Chief Records Officer at GRS_Team@nara.gov. 

The Center for Charge Card Management (CCCM) will work to negotiate modifications to the GSA SmartPay Master Contracts to reflect the GRS 1.1 updates once the FAR Council has made any necessary changes to FAR 4.703, which governs record retention requirements for contracts. 

