---
title: "GSA SmartPay - GSA SmartPay Card/Account Close Out Guidance"
pageTitle:  "GSA SmartPay® - GSA SmartPay Card/Account Close Out Guidance"
intro: "GSA SmartPay Smart Bulletin No. 041"
number: "No. 041"
order: 041
businessline: "Purchase, Travel, and Integrated"
published: "March 18, 2025"
lastupdated: "N/A"
---

UPDATE:
| Date | Version History Action Log - Summary of Action/Changes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| March 18, 2025 | Implementation of Smart Bulletin #41 |

## Effective Date

March 18, 2025, and shall remain in force until modified or rescinded.

## Business Line(s) Affected

Purchase, Travel, and Integrated

## Introduction

On February 11, 2025 The President of the United States issued an Executive Order implementing the President’s “Department of Government Efficiency" workforce optimization initiative. Included in the Executive Order in Section 3(c) is Reduction in Force. OPM has issued guidance to agencies with plans to carry out the reduction of the federal government workforce. This guidance is to assist agencies/organizations in closing out cards/accounts for employees that will be leaving the agency/organization.

## Summary

In compliance with the President’s Executive Order there has been an uptake in employees that are currently or will be departing soon. This smart bulletin is to assist with the steps that should be addressed in agency out-processing policies and procedures. Agency/organization government charge card personnel should ensure that:
- There are no outstanding bills or transactions on the departing person’s account.
- There is good contact information for the person after they out process in case any issues arise or any other transactions need processing.
- Cards/accounts are being set to $1 if transactions still need to be processed, accounts are closed if no additional transactions will happen.
- Accounts in which the Billing Official and Alternate leave are set to $1 until replacements have been processed.
- A voucher process is in place for anyone leaving that may still have transactions to process.
- In the departure of a Level I A/OPC, GSA is notified with a new point of contact for the agency.

The Anti-Deficiency Act prohibits most agencies from incurring obligations in the absence of appropriations (unless otherwise allowed by law or for emergencies involving the safety of life or limb, the protection of property or other excepted/exempted activities). Card/account holders should therefore coordinate with the appropriate officials in their agency to ensure only authorized travel, purchases and payments are made.

## Action

Agencies shall develop and publish their own out-processing policies and procedures in accordance with the agency policies and regulations. This smart bulletin should be used as a guide to the steps that need to be completed for the least likely risk in the out-going employees card/account.

For questions or comments regarding this Smart Bulletin, please contact the GSA SmartPay helpdesk at [gsa_smartpay@gsa.gov](mailto:gsa_smartpay@gsa.gov).
